# The 2016' Interferometric Beauty Contest

For the _2016' Interferometric Imaging Beauty Contest_[^Sanchez2016] held in
Edinburgh, the objective of the contest was to reconstruct multi-wavelength
images. A metric was thus specifically designed to compare multi-channel images
so as to be insensitive to irrelevant differences due to:

* **orientation**: image axes may be inverted, notably the E-W axis;
* **translation**: there may be an arbitrary shift between images (possibly a
  different shift in every spectral channel);
* **pixel scale**: the size of the pixel used for the restored image is
  arbitrary even though it should be sufficiently small to account for the
  highest measured frequencies;
* **brightness**: not all entries are normalized according to the channel-wise
  flux given in `OI_FLUX` data-block.

In addition, the comparison must take into account that the measurements have
limited angular resolution. Thus the reference image ``\Vy`` is the ground
truth image ``\Vz`` convolved with an effective _Point Spread Function_ (PSF)
whose _Full Width at Half Maximum_ (FWHM) chosen to match the interferometric
resolution. In the comparison, the restored images are also convolved with a
PSF whose FWHM is tuned to best match the reference image ``\Vy``.

Let ``\MR(\rho,\Vt,\omega)`` be the linear operator used to resample an image
with a given magnification ``\rho``, translation ``\Vt``, and blur parameter
``\omega``. The magnification ``\rho`` is the ratio of the output image pixel
size over the input image pixel size. The translation ``\Vt`` may be specified
for the input or output pixel grids (as is the most convenient). The blur
parameter ``\omega`` can be specified as the FWHM of the PSF introduced to
control the effective resolution of the output image.

Using the resampling operator, the **reference image** is:

``` math
\Vy = \MR(\rho_{\mathrm{ref}},\boldsymbol{0},\omega_{\mathrm{ref}}) \cdot \Vz,
```

where ``\Vz`` is the ground truth image. Note that there is no translation
between the ground truth image ``\Vz`` and the reference image ``\Vy``.

``\delta_{\mathrm{ref}} = 3\,\mathrm{mas}/\mathrm{pixel}`` is the pixel size of
the image ``z`` and ``\omega_{\mathrm{ref}} \sim
\lambda_{\mathrm{min}}/(2\,B_{\mathrm{max}})`` is the FWHM of the objective
resolution.

The score for a given image ``x`` is the sum of the squared differences between
the ``\Gamma``-corrected images:

``` math
s(\Vx) = \frac{
  \sum\limits_{\lambda} \min\limits_{\alpha_\lambda,\Vt_\lambda,\omega_\lambda}
  \sum\limits_{j} \left(
      \Gamma\bigl(
        \alpha_\lambda\,
        [\MR(\rho,\Vt_\lambda,\omega_\lambda)\cdot\Vx_\lambda]_{j}
      \bigr)
      - \Gamma\bigl([\Vy_{\lambda}]_j\bigr)
     \right)^p
  }{
    \sum\limits_{\lambda,j} \Gamma\bigl([\Vy_{\lambda}]_j\bigr)^p
  }
```

where ``\Vx_{\lambda}`` is the restored image in the spectral channel indexed by
``\lambda``, ``j`` is the pixel index and ``\Gamma: \Reals\to\Reals`` is a brightness
correction function to emphasizes the interesting parts of the images. We have
chosen:

``` math
\gdef\Sign{\mathrm{sign}} % trick
\Gamma(t) = \Sign(t)\,|t|^\gamma \, ,
```

where ``\Sign(t)`` is the sign of ``t``:

``` math
\Sign(t) = \begin{cases}
-1 & \text{if $t < 0$}\\
+1 & \text{if $t > 0$}\\
\phantom{+}0 & \text{if $t = 0$}\\
\end{cases}
```

The sign function is introduced for generality even though restored images are
usually nonnegative. The denominator is to normalize the score: 0 is the best
possible value and 1 is the score for a black image. The lower the score the
better.

Because ``\Gamma(\alpha\,t) = \Gamma(\alpha)\,\Gamma(t)`` (whatever ``t`` and
``\alpha``), minimizing with respect to ``\alpha_\lambda`` when ``p = 2`` has a
closed form solution and the score simplifies to:

``` math
s(x) = 1 - \frac{
    \sum\limits_{\lambda} \max\limits_{\Vt_\lambda,\omega_\lambda}
    c_\lambda(\Vt_\lambda,\omega_\lambda)
  }{
    \sum\limits_{\lambda,j} \Gamma\bigl([\Vy_{\lambda}]_j\bigr)^2
  } ,
```

with:

``` math
  c_\lambda(\Vt,\omega) = \frac{
    \Bigl[
      \sum_{j}
      \Gamma\bigl([\Vy_{\lambda}]_j\bigr)\,
      \Gamma\bigl([\MR(\rho,\Vt,\omega)\cdot\Vx_\lambda]_{j}\bigr)
    \Bigr]
  }{
    \sum_{j}
    \Gamma\bigl([\MR(\rho,t,\omega)\cdot\Vx_\lambda]_{j}\bigr)^2
  } \, ,
```

which is a normalized correlation between the ``\Gamma``-corrected images.


To compensate for different pixel sizes, the image ``x`` or ``x`` which has the
larger pixel size is interpolated so that both images have the same (smallest)
pixel size.

Separable linear interpolation with a triangle kernel is applied for magnifying
and fine shifting the images.

The criterion is minimized for a translation between each images (for each
spectral channel).

In every spectral channel, the brightness of the restored images is scaled
so that the total flux per channel is the same as in the reference image.

Because the resolution of the reference image may change (see above) the score
is the ratio between the sum for all spectral channels of the scores between
the restored images and the reference images divided by the sum for all
spectral channels of the scores between a zero image and the reference images.


[^Sanchez2016]:
    > J. Sanchez-Bermudez, É. Thiébaut, K.-H. Hofmann, M. Heininger, D.
    > Schertl, G. Weigelt, F. Millour, A. Schutz, A. Ferrari, M. Vannier, D.
    > Mary, J. Young & F. Malbet, F., *The 2016 interferometric imaging beauty
    > contest* in Optical and Infrared Interferometry and Imaging V, SPIE
    > International Conference, **9907**, 99071D (2016)
    > [doi](https://doi.org/10.1117/12.2231982).
