# The 2024' Interferometric Imaging Contest

For the _2024' Interferometric Imaging Contest_ held in Japan, the objective of the
contest is to reconstruct multi-wavelength images. Following the _2016' Interferometric
Imaging Beauty Contest_[^Sanchez2016], the metric is the sum of scores in the different
spectral channels and such that it is insensitive to irrelevant differences due to:

* **orientation**: image axes may be inverted, notably the E-W axis;
* **translation**: there may be an arbitrary shift between images, the shift ``\Vt`` is
  however the same in all spectral channels because this is expected for scientific
  analysis of the images;
* **brightness**: not all entries are normalized according to the channel-wise flux given
  in `OI_FLUX` data-block so a correction factor ``α_λ > 0`` is allowed for the restored
  image in each spectral channel;
* **out-of-field values**: after all geometric transformations, the fields of view of the
  reference and reconstructed images may be different, it is assumed that missing pixel
  values are equal to zero: ``β = η = 0``;
* **angular resolution**: the expected angular resolution is set by the resolution limit
  of the interferometer with some amount of super-resolution.

The image distance is computed for reference and restored images convolved with a an
effective _Point Spread Function_ (PSF) whose _Full Width at Half Maximum_ (FWHM) is given
by:

```math
\omega_λ = \frac{λ}{ζ\,B_{\mathrm{max}}}
```

with ``ζ ≥ 2`` the level of super resolution and ``B_{\mathrm{max}}`` the maximal
baseline. Following Gomes et al.[^Gomes2016], the distance is given by the sum of the
absolute value of the pixel-wise difference with no brightness correction, i.e. ``p = 1``
and ``\Gamma(x) = x``. The score for a multi-spectral restored image ``\Vx`` is thus given
by:

``` math
\Score(\Vx) = \max\limits_{\Vt}\sum_λ\left(
    1 - \frac{
      \min\limits_{α_λ}\sum_{j \in Ω_λ}
      \bigl|α_λ\,[\MR_{\Vtheta_λ}\cdot\Vx_λ]_j - [\Vy_λ]_j\bigr|
    }{
      \sum_{j \in Ω_λ} \bigl|[\Vy_λ]_j\bigr|
    }
  \right)
```

with

```math
\Vtheta_λ = \{\rho_λ,\Vt,\omega_λ\}
```

the settings for resampling the restored image in spectral channel ``λ``. The
magnification ``\rho_λ`` is computed as the ratio of the known pixel sizes of ``\Vx_λ``
and ``\Vy_λ`` and, usually, does not depend on ``λ``.

Since there is no closed-form expression of the best scaling factors ``α_λ``, for each
translation ``\Vt``, the score is numerically optimized in the chromatic scaling factors.
Since this optimization is separable in the spectral channels, we used Brent's `fmin`
algorithm to find the scaling factors.

To find the best shift ``\Vt``, the score is computed of a coarse grid of offsets and then
continuously maximized starting from the best coarse offset.

[^Sanchez2016]:
    > J. Sanchez-Bermudez, É. Thiébaut, K.-H. Hofmann, M. Heininger, D.
    > Schertl, G. Weigelt, F. Millour, A. Schutz, A. Ferrari, M. Vannier, D.
    > Mary, J. Young & F. Malbet, F., *The 2016 interferometric imaging beauty
    > contest* in Optical and Infrared Interferometry and Imaging V, SPIE
    > International Conference, **9907**, 99071D (2016)
    > [doi](https://doi.org/10.1117/12.2231982).

[^Gomes2016]:
    > N. Gomes, P. J. V. Garcia & É. Thiébaut, *Assessing the quality of
    > restored images in optical long-baseline interferometry* in Monthly
    > Notices of the Royal Astronomical Society, vol. **465**, pp. 3823-3839
    > (2016).
